# Why?

OpenRGB uses modes to describe RGB effects that are built into the devices' firmware.  These effects can be switched by selecting the mode within the OpenRGB interface.  The patterns are not generated by OpenRGB itself but instead are generated by the RGB controller itself and run without intervention from the PC.  In the interest of being able to better describe these modes, we are trying to standardize the mode names across all supported devices.

There are several effects that are pretty common across many brands and vendors of RGB hardware.  Sometimes these manufacturers don't name the modes the same thing.  For instance, a mode that fades a single color in and out could be called "Fading", but it could also be called "Breathing" or "Breath".  A mode that cycles through colors could be called "Cycle", "Spectrum Cycle", "Spectrum", or even something like "Rainbow".  A lot of OpenRGB's existing code simply copies the same names the official software gave to the modes, but these differences in name prevent us from being able to apply what is essentially the same effect across multiple devices when the names don't match.  It also prevents us from providing descriptions of the modes using tooltips.  To remedy this, I'm putting together a list of common modes and providing names that we can use across all devices for any mode that implements a certain style of effect.  If all devices have their fade on/fade off mode called "Breathing", we can just set "Breathing" across all devices and end up with something that looks at least sort of uniform, if not synchronized in time.

# Common OpenRGB Modes

| Standardized Name | Description | Example GIF |
| ----------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Direct            | Direct mode is a mode that allows setting individual LEDs to static colors that does not fade or flicker upon color changes and does not save the updated colors to device memory.  Used for effect engine software to rapidly update the LEDs for PC software driven effects.  Some devices require a continuous packet stream to remain in direct mode, otherwise they revert to built-in effects. | |
| Custom            | Custom mode is a mode that allows setting individual LEDs to static colors, but does not meet the criteria for being a Direct mode.  This means it either flickers, fades, or saves to device memory.  Generally unsuitable for effect engine software. | |
| Static            | Static mode is a mode that sets the entire device or device zones, but not individual LEDs, to a static color.  This mode may fade or flicker and may save to device memory. | |
| Breathing         | |
| Spectrum Cycle    | |
| Rainbow Wave      | |